Module 2: TRANSISTORS / LOGIC GATES / COMBINATIONAL LOGIC


Hardware: 

How to store a bit on device. 
Classic CPU. Billions transistors integrated.
Silicon: 

Transistor: What is it?  WhY IS it made of silicon.

4004 = 2300 transistor in the same are as the chip on hand. In 70's 

Decrease the size of transistors. 

Mores of Law doesn't go with chip

4.5 Billion by Intel on : Intel 15 Core Xeon Ivy Bridge .

We if go down to the size of transistor that boders to the size of an atom than it might not be possible to reduce the size more than that. 


One Transistor: How it is made?

It is a electrical switch made from silicon.

Transitor composted of 3 component. Gate, Drain and Source. GDS

It acts like a electrical switch. What switch does? Connects two terminal togather to complete the cycle so the current can flow. 

But in transistor there is no moving part. It actually turns on electronically. Here the G has the ability to turn the Drain and Source so that the current can flow through them 


How is transistor made?

Any copper in a wire is composed of a lattice of atoms bonded together via their electrons. Not all electrons need to participate to bond. So those which are not participating in bonding are 
called free electrons. Free electrons are negative changes while participating elecrons are positive charges. If you put those free electrons to the top by the positive charge as positive attracts 
the negtive towards. That means the negative charge move and the movement of those negative charges is called current. 

For example some of the things like glass rubber has electrons but not lot of free electorns that is why there are not good conductor of the current. Called insulators!!

Transistors are made of silicon. Why are they made up of silicon? 

Silicon is number 14 in perodic table and it has +4 atom meaning how many electron in the outer most body of it's cell.
Covalent bonds are formed if two atom with 4 electron next to each other forms +8 number of electrons share together to form a solid. 
Since all the outer electrons are bonded together, there is actually no any free electrons left over like coppor.

It would not be ideal for switch. But people found  over the years that , if you heated up the electrons than i will create some free electrons  and they could participate in flow of curren.
Sometime it is good conductor and some time bad conductor. So it's called semiConductor. 

But why use it?
We can take silicon and improve its ability to conduct current by doping it. 

we make a variant of silicon called N-Type silicon .
If we take regular silicon 

P-type: remove the electrons. 


How does a transitor Work?

Why does the positive charge on the gate urn transistor on? 


Speed of MOSFET: 

NMOSFET
PMOSFET



Paring Transistor Together: 



CMOS to Logic Gate:


Transistor are basis for all electronic devices. 


Transistors are in the length of 5 nano meters. Human hair is about 80 nano meters. 



Logic Gates: NAND, NOR 



Basic digital logic gates

Not/Inv
NAND
AND
NOR
OR



NAND Gate (Not ANd)

Two inputs: Either 3 volts or 0 volts. One output.


MOre than 2 inputs?

And = 1 all input are 1 to turn on.

OR = 1 if any input is 1 


Gate Delays:

Longest path of the Circut.

Short hand for inverting signals


Logic Gates to Combinational Logic.


Logic Gates to Truth Table

Logic Gates to Boolean Functions


Truth Table to Gates:


PLA (Programmable Logic Array)

Mechanical Technique (for less than 4 inputs)


LOOK 1 ON THE OUTPUT






